Feat/quorum dapp (#51)
chainstack/docs: docs/tutorials/loyalty-program-quorum.md

4. With Truffle, create and compile the contract.
5. With Truffle, deploy the contract to your local development network.
6. With Truffle, test the contract.
7. With Truffle, deploy the contract to your Quorum network running with Chainstack.

## Step-by-step

### 1. Create a Consortium project

1. Log in to your [Chainstack account](https://console.chainstack.com/).
2. Click **Create project**.
3. Click **Consortium**.
3. Provide **Project name** and optionally **Description**.
4. Click **Create**.

This will create a project with Chainstack.

### 2. Deploy a Quorum network

1. Select the created project and click **Get started**.
2. Provide **Network name**.
3. Under **Blockchain protocol**, select **Quorum**.
4. Under **Consensus mechanism**, select [Raft or IBFT](/blockchains/quorum#consensus). Click **Next**.
5. Under **Cloud hosting provider**, select your preferred provider.
6. Under **Region**, select the region for your deployment.

  ::: warning
  Currently only **Asia-Pacific** is available.
  :::

7. Review your changes and click **Create network**.

The network status will change from **Pending** to **Running** once deployed.

> 

Reviewer: Let's put 
```suggestion
It will take approximately 10 minutes.
```

Reviewer 2: I would say "a few minutes".

Author: Guys, it really doesn't take that long. It takes just under 3 minutes which means it shouldn't be a part of time planning for anyone reading the guide which in turn means we shouldn't put it in the guide; it's excessive here.

### 3. Get your Quorum node access information

1. In your Quorum deployment project, click your Quorum network name.
2. Under **Node name**, click your node.

Under **Credentials**, you will see your Quorum node access information.

### 4. Create and compile the contract

> 1. On your machine, create a directory for the contract. Initialize Truffle in the directory:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. On your machine, create a directory called ```loyalty``` for the contract. Initialize Truffle in the directory:
```

Author: It doesn't have to be `loyalty`. It's a directory for the contract/project. So let's keep the original text.

```

> truffle init

Reviewer: ```suggestion
mkdir loyalty
cd loyalty
truffle init
```

Author: The original text instructs to initialize truffle in the contract directory. Let's keep the original piece.

    }

    /// Reads balance of the account requesting
    function balance() public view returns (uint) {
        return balances[msg.sender];
    }
}
```

* `join` gives 10 Ether to the address that joins the program.
* `balance` returns the loyalty program balance associated with the address.
* `msg.sender` is the address that calls the function.

3. Create `2_deploy_contracts.js` in the `migrations` directory.

```js
var loyaltyProgram = artifacts.require("./loyaltyProgram.sol");

module.exports = function(deployer) {
  deployer.deploy(loyaltyProgram);
};
```

This will create the `loyaltyProgram.sol` contract deployment instructions for Truffle.

4. Compile the contract.

Run:

```
truffle compile
```

This will compile the contract and put it in your `build/contracts` directory in the `.json` format.

### 5. Deploy the contract to your local development network

1. Start the local development network.

   1. Edit `truffle-config.js` to add your local development network:

     ```js
     module.exports = {
     networks: {
     development: {
         host: "127.0.0.1",
         port: 9545,
         network_id: "5777"
       }
      }
     };
     ```

> 

Reviewer: If we run ```truffle develop``` there is no need to set these values in ```truffle-config.js```

Reviewer 2: True

   2. Run:

     ```
     truffle develop
     ```
     This will run the development network on your machine.

> 2. Deploy the contract to the local development network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Deploy the contract to the local development network. To do so, open a new terminal window and type:
```

> Run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open a new terminal window and run:
```

Author: Good point. I will change it a little and commit.

```
truffle migrate --network development
```

This will deploy the contract to the development network as specified in `truffle-config.js`.

### 6. Test the contract

1. Navigate to the `tests` directory.
2. Create a `loyaltyProgramTest.js` file:

```js
var loyaltyProgram = artifacts.require("./loyaltyProgram.sol");

const ether = 10**18; // 1 ether = 1000000000000000000 wei
const reward = 10 * ether;

contract("loyaltyProgram", function(accounts) {
  const account = accounts[0]

  it("should reward joiner with 10 balance", async () => {
    const program = await loyaltyProgram.deployed();

    await program.join({from: account});
    const accountBalance = await program.balance({from: account});
    assert.equal(accountBalance, reward, "initial balance is incorrect");
  });
});
```

::: tip See also:
* [Truffle: Writing Tests in JavaScript](https://www.trufflesuite.com/docs/truffle/testing/writing-tests-in-javascript)
:::

> 3. Run the test:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. On the second terminal window, run the test:
```

Author: Good point. Will change a bit and commit.

```
truffle test
```

The test run output should be `Passing`.

### 7. Deploy the contract to your Quorum network

1. Install `HDWalletProvider`.

[HDWalletProvider](https://www.npmjs.com/package/truffle-hdwallet-provider) is Truffle's separate npm package used to sign transactions.

Run:

```console
npm install truffle-hdwallet-provider --save
```

2. Edit `truffle-config.js` to add:

* `HDWalletProvider`
* Your Quorum network running with Chainstack

```js
const HDWalletProvider = require("truffle-hdwallet-provider");
const mnemonic = 'word1 word2 word3 word4 word5 word6 word7 word8 word9 word10 word11 word12 word13 word14 word15';

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const rpc = 'http://your-quorum-rpc-endpoint.com
```

Author: I don't think we need to declare these constants here tho?

module.exports = {
  networks: {
    development: {
        host: "127.0.0.1",
        port: 9545,
        network_id: "5777"
    },
    quorum: {
        provider: function() {

>         return new HDWalletProvider("mnemonic", "RPC_ENDPOINT");

Author: Good catch on `mnemonic`, thanks. The RPC_ENDPOINT one is a caps mention that's explained below.

        },

>         network_id: "12345",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        network_id: NETWORK_ID,
```

Author: same as explained a little further up in the comments

        gasPrice: 0,
        gas: 4500000,
        type: "quorum"
    }
   }
};
```

where

* `quorum` — any network name that you will pass to the `truflle migrate --network` command.
* `HDWalletProvider` — Truffle's custom provider to sign transactions.

> * `mnemonic` — your mnemonic that generates your accounts. You can also generate a mnemonic online with [Mnemonic Code Converter](https://iancoleman.io/bip39/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `mnemonic` — your mnemonic that generates your accounts. You can also generate a mnemonic online with [Mnemonic Code Converter](https://iancoleman.io/bip39/) Make sure to generate a **15 key** mnemonic.
```

Author: Will change this a bit and commit.

> * RPC_ENDPOINT — your Quorum node RPC endpoint. Available under **Credentials** > **RPC endpoint**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `RPC_ENDPOINT` — your Quorum node RPC endpoint. Available under **Credentials** > **RPC endpoint**.
```

Author: We can discuss this but the rule of thumb is to mark as inline code to refer to a specific parameter that is "as is" vs putting a variable in caps.

* `network_id` — your Quorum network ID. Available under **Credentials** > **Network ID**. You can set it to `*` for any.
* `gasPrice` — the setting must be `0` for the Quorum network.
* `gas` — the setting must be the default `4500000` for the Quorum network.
* `type` — the setting must be `quorum` to instruct Truffle for the Quorum network deployment.

Example:

```js
const HDWalletProvider = require("truffle-hdwallet-provider");
const mnemonic = 'word1 word2 word3 word4 word5 word6 word7 word8 word9 word10 word11 word12 word13 word14 word15';

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const rpc = 'http://your-quorum-rpc-endpoint.com
```

module.exports = {
  networks: {
    development: {
        host: "127.0.0.1",
        port: 9545,
        network_id: "5777"
    },
    quorum: {
        provider: function() {

>         return new HDWalletProvider("mnemonic", "http://nd-123-456-789.rg-123-456.int.chainstack.com:8545");

Author: same as above

        },

>         network_id: "12345",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        network_id: NETWORK_ID,
```

Author: same

        gasPrice: 0,
        gas: 4500000,
        type: "quorum"
    }
   }
};
```

3. Run:

```
truffle migrate --network quorum
```

This will engage `2_deploy_contracts.js` and deploy the `loyaltyProgram.sol` contract to your Quorum network as specified in `truffle-config.js`.

You can view the deployed contract and the contract address in your Chainstack control panel by navigating to your Quorum project > **Explorer** > **Contracts**.

## Interact with the contract

See [Interacting with Quorum node using Geth JavaScript Console](/guides/interacting-with-the-blockchain#quorum).

The following contract interaction example is done with Geth.

### 1. Connect to a node in your Quorum network

Run:

```console
geth attach RPC_ENDPOINT
```

where

> * RPC_ENDPOINT — your Quorum node RPC endpoint. Available under **Credentials** > **RPC endpoint**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `RPC_ENDPOINT` — your Quorum node RPC endpoint. Available under **Credentials** > **RPC endpoint**.
```

Author: same as above

Example:

```console
geth attach http://nd-123-456-789.rg-123-456.int.chainstack.com:8545
```

This will put you in the Geth console interactive mode.

### 2. Set the ABI variable for the contract

Truffle creates the contract's ABI when you run `truffle compile` and saves it to your project's `/build/contracts` directory in `.json` format. Navigate to the directory and get the ABI.

Run:

```js
> var abi = CONTRACT_ABI
```

where

> * CONTRACT_ABI — your contract's ABI in one line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `CONTRACT_ABI` — your contract's ABI in one line.
```

Author: same as above

ABI for `loyaltyProgram.sol`:

```js
> var abi = [{"constant":false,"inputs":[],"name":"join","outputs":[{"name":"","type":"uint256"}],"payable":false,"stateMutability":"nonpayable","type":"function"},{"inputs":[],"payable":true,"stateMutability":"payable","type": "constructor"},{"constant":true,"inputs":[],"name":"balance","outputs":[{"name":"","type":"uint256"}],"payable":false,"stateMutability":"view","type":"function"},{"constant": true,"inputs":[],"name":"owner","outputs":[{"name":"","type":"address"}],"payable":false,"stateMutability":"view","type":"function"}]
```

### 3. Set the contract address

Set the address of the deployed contract.

Run:

```js
> var address = CONTRACT_ADDRESS
```

where

> * CONTRACT_ADDRESS — the address of the deployed contract. Get the address by navigating in your Chainstack control panel to your Quorum project > **Explorer** > **Contracts**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `CONTRACT_ADDRESS` — the address of the deployed contract. Get the address by navigating in your Chainstack control panel to your Quorum project > **Explorer** > **Contracts**.
```

Author: same

Example:

```js
> var address = "0x1bF2345B6789BcC1234567aE89cedFE1Ef2E34B5"
```

### 4. Set a variable to the contract at the address

Run:

```js
> var CONTRACT_NAME = eth.contract(abi).at(address)
```

where

> * CONTRACT_NAME is any name you want to call the contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `CONTRACT_NAME` is any name you want to call the contract.
```

Author: same

Example:

```js
> var loyaltyProgram = eth.contract(abi).at(address)
```

### 5. Set the default Quorum address and unlock it

Set the default Quorum address to interact with the contract.

Run:

```js
> eth.defaultAccount="QUORUM_ADDRESS"
```

where

> * QUORUM_ADDRESS — an address created with one of the node deployments. Available in your Chainstack control panel under **Credentials** > **Default wallet address**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `QUORUM_ADDRESS` — an address created with one of the node deployments. Available in your Chainstack control panel under **Credentials** > **Default wallet address**.
```

Author: same

Example:

```js
> eth.defaultAccount="0x12d34fe5f67ff89f1c23456c78d9123df45cb67a"
```

> Unlock the account:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlock the account and provide the passphrase when prompted:
```

Author: I was actually thinking about this one. Will see how to fit this better.
